# Adding Modules

OpenMRS has support for external modules developed for the OpenMRS ecosystem by independent developers. This can be an error-prone process so it is recommended to spin up a sandbox environment to test all modules before adding them to the production environment. 

You can search for modules at [https://addons.openmrs.org/](https://addons.openmrs.org/) 

Once you find a module, make sure it is compatible with openMRS version 2.13. If it is not compatible but is installed anyways, it can lead to the entire application shutting down and not working. 

## Module Installation

In theory, you can install a module via the OpenMRS UI. This has had varying levels of success, but you can attempt to do so by navigating to the legacy admin page and clicking on Manage Modules and uploading the module file from there. If this does not work, follow the below instructions to manually install the module file on the server. 

1. Download the .omod module file
2. SSH to the server and update the modules directory permissions to allow us to copy a file there from our local machine: 
    
    ```xml
    sudo su
    cd /opt/tomcat/webapps/openmrs/WEB-INF/
    chmod 777 bundledModules
    
    sudo systemctl restart tomcat
    ```
    
3. From your local terminal window, making sure you are in the same directory as your .pem key, copy the file to the server. Execute the below command, making sure to substitute the path to the file on your local machine and the EC2 instance hostname. 

```xml
scp -i "OpenMRS instance key.pem" <PATH TO MODULE FILE> ec2-user@<EC2 INSTANCE HOST NAME>:/opt/tomcat/webapps/openmrs/WEB-INF/bundledModules

example:
scp -i "OpenMRS instance key.pem" /Users/jacquelynmoreno/Downloads/growthchart-2.1.0.omod ec2-user@ec2-3-143-23-181.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com:/opt/tomcat/webapps/openmrs/WEB-INF/bundledModules

```

1. From the server terminal window, restart tomcat

```xml
sudo systemctl restart tomcat
```

After the application has restarted, the module should be available for use. 

## Removing modules

If there is any issue with the module that affects the applications ability to start up or introduces bugs, you can remove it by SSHing to the server and removing the file:

```xml
cd /opt/tomcat/webapps/openmrs/WEB-INF/bundledModules
rm <file name>

example: 
rm growthchart-2.1.0.omod
```

and then restarting tomcat again:

```xml
sudo systemctl restart tomcat
```